Instructions

Welcome! This is a lie detection game. 
Your aim is to collect as much treasure as you can by clicking on the correct object concealing the treasure. 
You will see two objects on the screen. Treasure is hidden behind one of them. 
You will hear an audio recording of a person describing the treasure's location. 
These recordings were taken from an earlier experiment where speakers had to mislead their partner into choosing the wrong object by lying about where the treasure was. 
The speakers lied half the time about the treasure's location. 

Your task is to click on the object that you believe the treasure is behind.
Try to go with your gut - you have about 5 seconds click either object!
Remember that you cannot always trust the speaker!







Consent

You are being asked to participate in a study on lie detection. 
The study is interested in how accurately listeners decide whether a speaker is telling the truth or lying to them. 
During the experiment, you will see objects on a screen and hear a recording of a speaker, who will tell you which object has treasure hidden behind it. 
Your task is to click on the object that you believe the treasure is behind, based on whether you think the speaker is telling the truth or lying. 

Confidentiality: The data collected will not contain any information that will make it possible to identify you. 

Subject's rights: You have the right to discontinue participation at any time without explanation. You may ask that any data you have supplied to that point be withdrawn/destroyed. You will still be reimbursed for your contribution. If you have any questions as a result of reading this information sheet, you should ask the researcher before the experiment begins.

For further information: If you have any questions regarding this study, please contact Josiah King at j.p.j.king@sms.ed.ac.uk or Hannah Rohde at hannah.rohde@ed.ac.uk. 

This study has been approved by the Psychology Research Ethics Committee, whom you may contact at psyethics@ed.ac.uk (ref number: XXXXXX) if you have concerns regarding your rights as a participant in this research.



Outro 

Thanks very much!
This experiment is being conducted to validate software designed to conduct online psychology experiments in which mouse-movements are recorded. The study you participated in is a replication of an experiment by Loy, Rohde & Corley ( https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/cogs.12378 ) which was previously conducted in a lab based setting, which established that participants' tendency to interpret disfluent speech (um's and err's) as signs of lying could be investigated by measuring both eye- and mouse- movements. 
This experiment is being conducted in both a lab setting and online, in an aim to validate the mouse-tracking software, and additionally investigate whether the results of Loy, Rohde & Corley (2017) can be replicated in an online setting.

If you have any questions regarding this study, please contact Josiah King at j.p.j.king@sms.ed.ac.uk or Hannah Rohde at hannah.rohde@ed.ac.uk. 

